Of course, a network is only as useful as the people in it, and if you surround yourself with a network of morons and losers then your career is going to take a dive as well. Look for talented people, either at work or in your personal life, and keep them in your life. Hang out, talk about problems, offer solutions or help – whatever you do, make sure that you are surrounded by talent. Because only a talented network will help you reach your goals.

This is not to say that you refuse to talk to anyone less than a VP. In fact, people with supposedly unimpressive titles such as ‘secretary’ or ‘administrative assistant’ are amazingly important. They are direct gatekeepers to your potential career boosters, they understand how things are *really* done in the company, and they can solve any number of bureaucratic problems if they like you enough. Always, always be friendly to the secretary.

A nice way to quickly identify how important someone is in a discussion or negotiation is to look at the pronoun they use. People who are higher up tend to identify more with the company (and seek to downplay their importance during a negotiation) – they will use terms like “we” and “us” more often. People who aren’t so important inevitably use “I” or “me” in conversation as a way to make themselves feel better.

**Develop flexible networks**
Regardless of who you are, a strong network is invaluable to your career. But many people fail to understand what a ‘strong’ network is – they assume that by forging contacts with many people, it will automatically create a winning set of connections. This is, sadly, not quite right.

A network requires breadth and variety to fully achieve its purpose. This is difficult. Most people will automatically end up with a network of people just like them – they work in similar jobs, probably met at the same organisation, have similar hobbies. This is natural, we create connections at work and we like to keep in touch with those who have similar interests. But this creates a dense and highly interconnected network, one which will tend to share viewpoints and information sources. In other words, they become an isolated echo chamber, in in which everyone is equally vulnerable to incoming layoffs or changes to the field.