- **Your chair:** It should be comfortable, obviously. Higher chair backs also create the impression of higher rank and importance, although you should not overdo this to the point of looking like a supervillain. Power is also implied by chair height, the ability to swivel, and armrests – hence why so many visitor chairs are small and basic.
- **Guest chairs:** These sit in front of the desk and are there to hold your visitors. They should match the desk (appearances are important), but be very clearly made for people who are less important than you. They also shouldn't be too comfortable, to encourage visitors to leave as soon as the meeting is over. It also helps to make guests sit with their back to the door – this is a subconscious stressor and a great way to disconcert those you don't particularly like.
- **A table for discussions:** If you've the space, a small table with several chairs is fantastic for informal discussions or problem-solving meetings. This is the best place to bring the discussion if you don't want to focus on hierarchy.

If you are far up enough in the hierarchy that you can choose your own office (and assign offices to others) then you need to be careful. Picking the biggest office or most dramatic view for yourself creates an explicit ranking amongst your team, who will compare their own offices in the minutest detail for signs of favouritism. Save yourself the hassle and take something middle-of-the-road, which removes the competition completely.

Alternatively, if you *do* want to create a sense of hierarchy within the team based on offices, then remember the different factors which can be mixed and matches to create the impression of status. Private offices, larger areas of personal space, more luxurious furnishings, a nice desk, windows, and a location near to the 'action' (i.e. upper management) are all considered a sign of status.