more power is vital for your own rise in the career. But just as important, (and often overlooked) is gaining the support of those with *less* power. Politics is very often an exchange between someone who wants to *gain* power and a group of people who want to *give them* that power, because the group believes that the one person will promote their interests. If you can successfully convince a group of people that you are best able to represent them, then you are already on your way up the corporate ladder.
**Your position as an expert**
Being known as an ‘expert’ provides you a level of power in the organisation – your opinion is valued more than others, which means you are in turn able to exert greater influence on business decisions. The power you can exert in this way is proportional to the apparent value of your expertise – the more important it is to the core business or success of the company, the more important you are.
Gaining this position is surprisingly easy – simply doing your job better than anyone else in the company will instantly make you an expert of sorts. On-the-job experience, in which you naturally come into contact with the different facets of your role, will build this expertise and thus the perception of your value. Deliberately going in-depth within your subject to become a true expert, particularly if you can get some form of professional qualification, will make you truly valued.
There are limitations to this approach. The power you exert is often limited to areas directly impacting your area of expertise – you will find yourself pigeonholed unless you actively try to branch out into new areas. Similarly, you are only valued if your area of expertise is relevant. Being an expert in the old processes is useless if the entire organisation is doing something completely different.
For these reasons it is rarely worth planning your long-term political campaigns on the basis of power as an expert. Use it as an initial starting point, yes, use it to gain access to higher levels of management during discussions, but it is only valuable in the long run if you are able to stay up-to-date with changing fashions.
**Your control of a scarce resource**