The planning is done, the people are identified, and you are ready to do the actual persuasion. How you go about this is heavily dependent on the message and audience, but there are a few general rules you should follow:
- **Use clear and specific language:** People are very capable of noticing when others try to hide a lack of information by saying lots and lots of nothing. This is even more apparent as you discuss topics with higher levels of management, who are (generally) hired for their ability to be clever. This means that regardless of who you are talking to, they will notice when you are trying to avoid a question or avoid giving details. Be clear, be specific. Not only is it easier to understand, it helps people believe you and influences them to your side.
- **Put your ideas in a positive, constructive light:** It seems obvious, but it is amazing how many people try to persuade others by underselling their ideas and then saying “but it’s the best we have”. Be positive, emphasize that this idea will *improve* things rather than simply avoid problems.
- **Emphasise that you will help them adapt:** Most people don’t like change, it makes them scared and angry. As most major decisions require a major change of some sort, you will be forced to lead others through a change which they will be suspicious and possibly scared of. You should emphasise that you are there to help them through these difficult times, and that you will put a lot of effort into helping them adapt to the new situation. This reassurance calms people down, which makes the implementation much easier.
- **Ask them what they will do:** This ties into the previous point. By asking people what they will do to incorporate the change, you show that you are empathetic to their problems and want to hear how they will overcome them. It may be that you don’t really care, but the mere act of asking give the impression that you *do* care. This in turn will warm others to you, your idea, and the efforts needed to implement it.