This last question is often difficult to answer, as you rarely have all information on the people involved – you will need to use your judgement to compile a ‘most-likely’ position.
- **Values involved:** Everyone has a different set of internal values, derived from their cultural background, attitudes and beliefs. It can be dangerous to base your calculations of peoples actions based on broad stereotypes, but often an insight into the belief of the actors in any situation can help you predict what their intentions will be.
- **Spheres of influence:** As we’ve previously mentioned, everyone has a sphere of influence inside which they can change the outcome of events. This may be due to explicit power (lines of reporting, etc.) or ‘soft’ power. You should have a reasonable estimate of the sphere of influence for each major player in the situation. You should also have an idea of what they _believe_ their influence to be – an entirely different matter to what is actually the case!
- **Strengths & weaknesses:** In close-fought situations even minor differences in relative skills can mean vast changes in the final outcome. You should understand the main strengths and weaknesses of all players in the situation – including yourself...

At this point you should a reasonable idea of who is involved in the big event. The next question is whether you should be involved as well. Remember that there are always political tussles going on, but getting involved in all of them will burn you out and turn everyone against you. Ask yourself several questions:
- **Does the situation allow me to intervene?** Are things in a suitably flexible state in which it is possible to push things in one particular direction? Or is the change coming like a freight train, impossible to redirect without sacrificing your career?
- **Can I achieve anything?** Do you have the level of influence or power which would be required to make changes to the situation? Do the other people involved have a high enough opinion of you that you could achieve something? Would they listen to you?