- **Is my presentation phrased in the right language?** People speak many different languages – not in the sense of ‘German’ or ‘English’, but rather the language of their profession and their personal interests. If you are persuading the finance department, then you should focus on cost-saving, increased income, and other financial outcomes. If you speak to HR, talk about employee retention. If you speak to your team, discuss their talents, ability to overcome problems, and the way that this will lead to bonuses and promotion. If you want to persuade, speak to their interests.
- **What negative responses might I receive?** You will never have an important decision which is simply accepted. Someone will always complain, someone will be negatively affected, someone will have championed the other side and will need to be cheered up. This means you need to plan ahead for their complaints, their nasty questions and requests for explanation. Determine the correct answer to these ahead of time, practice it to make sure you can get the answer out without sounding too rehearsed.
- **What questions will come up?** This is the more relaxed version of the previous point. Even those who are in favour of your idea will want to know more – how will it be implemented, what’s in it for me, when are we doing it, etc. As above, you should think of the likely questions which will be asked, and come up with an answer to them. If you cannot think of a good answer, then think of a response which will put the question off to later – though be aware that this can be very tricky to do well.
- **When and how will I present?** Lastly comes the logistics side of the discussion. Are you having a meeting with the directly-impacted? Which meeting room will you book? When will you have it, and when will you meet the next group? Rumours fly almost instantly for important decisions, so you need to have almost simultaneous communication occurring to prevent people from hearing via other means (and when they do, you can be sure that they will be angry about it).

Sell the idea