all of the lessons on influencing in mind from the previous sections. At the same time, you'll be dealing with tough people, particularly at the higher levels of the business, which is where the general information given regarding negotiation will serve you well.
**Delay via questioning**
Any major business decision requires data – historical trends, current status, and predictions regarding the possible outcomes. But the world is fast-paced and uncertain, which means that there will never be perfect knowledge of the outcome. In other words, business decisions require taking a bit of risk. Even experienced managers have trouble finding the balance between taking risks and taking time to gather data.
Sneaky managers use this fact to indefinitely delay projects or decisions which they don't like. They may do this because they don't want to say 'no' outright, they may not believe you can handle rejection, they may even want to delay you while they steal your idea. Regardless of the reason, they will provide seemingly professional requests for more information without the slightest intention of moving your project forward.
**If you are being targeted**
One of the first things to determine is whether your manager is really doing this. Some people naturally have a slow and analytical style, one which they switch to under high-pressure situations such as, well, making major decisions.
To start with, you should ask questions which examine their dedication to supporting your idea. For example: what do you need to be convinced? What specific criteria does I need to fulfil? How much time/effort should I create? Who else should be involved in this evaluation? How will this project affect you personally? And what should we consider as the go/no-go decision point for approving this idea?
You should also ask about other, competing projects which may be taking up their attention. Try to find out how your proposal stacks up to the others, and how those proposals will directly benefit your manager. Ask what other tasks you should be deprioritising to provide the extra information required.
As with all discussions, be confident and assertive, but not rude. If you receive answers which make it clear that your manager is never going to