- **Praise in public, scold in private:** If a team member did well, then tell them in front of the world – let them enjoy the praise and recognition. If they screwed up, then tell them in a private meeting and do it in a neutral, calm way – this prevents them ignoring your feedback due to anger and embarrassment. The exception here is if you need to punish someone in public as a way to raise team morale (but be careful doing this, it will cause many problems afterwards).
- **Be confident:** Be confident and calm. Even if you have no idea what you are doing, don’t let anyone realise it – confidence is just as infectious to others as panic.
- **Control your emotions in public:** The cool, composed leader is far more respected than the one who goes on an emotional rant. If you need to show anger with others, make sure it’s controlled anger – and then stop when it is no longer needed.
- **Be consistent:** Employees need to feel fairly treated, and a major part of that is the knowledge that you are treating them consistently. Once you’ve decided on your management style, stay with that management style. If you provide rewards such as bonuses or better projects, make sure the system for providing them is clear and consistent.

Once you have gained respect, then you will start to gain loyalty, the willingness of your team to go through hardships for you. Although respect is built by being a competent leader, loyalty is built by clearly being there for your team – solving their problems and supporting their interests. This will occur even if you follow a harsh, tyrannical way of leading – your team will accept you being a bastard as long as you are *their* bastard.

So how do you build loyalty? Assuming you fulfil the basic requirements (you are competent and successful), you will need to work on the following:
- **Be approachable:** Your team should be able to approach you with their problems. This has a double benefit – not only does your open-door policy earn their loyalty, it lets you discover upcoming issues before they become a catastrophe.
- **Treat people equally:** From the highest manager to the newest worker on your team, you should be willing to treat everyone