So how do you build an empathetic demeanour?
- **Listen**: Listen more than you talk. Try to follow active listening, the art of focusing on your conversational partner, taking what they say, summarising it back to them, and using this to develop further questions about the topic. In essence, you aren't just listening to what they say, you are talking to them about it.
- **Learn how to ask questions**: If someone is coming to you with an issue, they must think it is important. Even if you can't understand it yourself. Which is why you need to ask questions to get to the root of the matter – try to find out the specifics of the problem, why it is important to them, who else might be involved, and what they would consider a successful resolution. Ask specific questions, don't waste time on general ones.
- **Understand their priorities and problems**: It is hard to understand what other people are doing, particularly in the workplace when they are responsible for different projects or even in completely different departments. This disconnect will inevitably be a problem when the next crisis pops up, so take the time to solve it beforehand. Go find that expert, have a chat, ask really basic questions about what they do, try to find out what happens in a typical day. This sort of basic knowledge will help you understand what they consider important, which in turn helps you to negotiate later on.
- **Watch for signs of overwork**: As a manager, one of the easiest ways to show empathy is to watch for signs of overwork, then offer to reduce the workload. Or, if this isn't possible, describe why the workload is so bad and what plans you have to the future which will improve it.
- **Be interested in hopes and goals**: Your team and your colleagues will have their own hopes and aspirations, areas in which they want to develop and goals they wish to achieve. Take an interest in these, use your talents and connections to help them succeed. This will not only gain you the reputation of an empathetic colleague, but will strengthen your network throughout the business.