There are a few simple points which you should keep in mind when crafting your story:
- **Find the narrative:** Look at your data and conclusions – have you got a story to tell here? A surprising hook, a captivating purpose or idea? If yes, you should damn well tell that story, don't waste the audiences' time.
- **Know your audience:** Who are your audience? What background information do they need to know in order to understand your ideas? Are they newbies – getting their first exposure to your subject but not wanting oversimplification? Generalists who have heard of the topic but want a better overview? Managers who are looking for actions they can take based on your data? Experts – who want the details and none of this storytelling rubbish? Or executive-level leaders, who only want the summary? Target your presentation to their needs.
- **Provide context:** How do your recommendations fit into the wider world? Decision-makers need to match your ideas with the wider business, which means they will want some sort of context in any case. Provide your own to make your ideas more persuasive.
- **Be objective:** It's easy to make a piece of data say anything you want – you can fiddle with graph layouts, pick your favourite analysis or stats, choosing sneaky colour schemes. In the short term this is very effective, and you can push decisions in your chosen direction quite easily. But soon people will start to *think* about your message, and then they will realise what you're doing. It's even quicker when dealing with an intelligent or expert audience.
- **Linear timelines:** Flashbacks and *in media res* is fine for novels, but not for a business presentation. Stick to a linear approach – provide the background, discuss the findings, present the implications. Don't assume that your audience can follow you through all of your mental leaps, guide them to the final solution.
- **Bring in emotion:** You'll have the best impact when you get emotional investment from your audience, particularly if that is