In office politics, as in the wider world, having control over a scarce resource provides you with a source of power and influence. This only applies if the resource is actually valued, of course, but provided you are able to find the right resource then you will find your opinion is suddenly much more valued.

Unlike the economic world (where resources such as coal and lumber are important), office politics uses a set of resources which many may not even recognise as being important. Some of the most relevant ones include:
- **Funding:** Money makes the world go round – it provides salaries, funding for projects, the ability to increase headcount, etc. etc. If you control a source of available funding, particularly during a period when the company is trying to reduce spending, then you are able to heavily influence the decisions which are being made.
- **Access:** Access to powerful people or politically important projects is also a scarce resource, as these are not open to everyone. Providing this access in exchange for favours is a long-established method of creating a power base – the power which administrative assistants wield is a simple example of this. Note that it is a ‘borrowed’ source of power, in that your influence lasts only as long as the person you are gatekeeping for is considered important.
- **Favours:** People with larger networks tend to collect a lot of favours from others over the years. After enough time, the favour network can be wide enough to achieve truly startling things – but only if they decide to help. The rarity of an all-encompassing collection of favours makes the owner a political force to be accounted for.
- **Technology:** Technology brings efficiency, speed, and savings, while requiring significant budgets to implement across the organisation. Both of these make the people in charge of new tech important, particularly if it is a ‘hot’ area or one where business leaders really want it implemented *now*.
- **Expertise:** As described in the previous section, knowledge or expertise in an area is also a resource. If you are the only one