- **Don't think of your next argument:** It's always very tempting to think of the next argument you will use, how you will rebut their last comment, how you have really good evidence supporting your position. Stop it. Although tempting, these thoughts simply distract you from focusing on what your counterpart is saying, which means you will miss vital information as it slips by.
- **Ask questions:** There are three good reasons to ask questions in the meeting. One is that it will force others to explain unclear points to you, helping your understanding. Second is that the act of thinking up questions gets you involved in the meeting, helping your recollection of the topics. And third, in contrast to the silent listeners, people who ask questions are noticed by the rest of the attendees – which means you will gain a reputation as an active, interested participant.
- **Identify the main idea:** Any time someone speaks, they are trying to get a message across. This message can be subtle, it can be obvious, it may even be completely different to what their words are saying. But there is a message, a main idea, and you need to identify what this is before acting on what they say.
- **Listen for the rationale:** There is (usually) some sort of rationale behind an idea, a reason as to why you should pay attention to it. The rationale is the first place to look to understand ulterior motives, and the first place to attack if you want to discredit an idea. But you can do neither of these things if you can't find the rationale in the first place.
- **Listen for key words:** Some words are more important than others. A day-long meeting on process optimisation will bore the participants half to death – but the moment someone mentions workforce reduction as a result of these optimisations, suddenly everyone is completely awake. Know what the most important key words for your position are, and be extra alert for these.
- **Watch the non-verbal behaviour:** Most of our communication happens non-verbally, and you will find that body language will often show something completely different to their words. The way we sit is a simple example of this, leaning back indicates a