Watch for shifty answers, and be ready to jump in with pointed follow-up questions on these points. Keep track of your discussions and the information you learn – it may come in handy later on if you need to file a suit for wrongful dismissal. Also identify the “mistake” which you made, as a reorganisation usually follows on from a high-profile failure on your behalf. If nothing else, you should learn from this.

Now you need to decide if you will fight or accept the change. Accepting is sometimes the easiest way – you will end up with a payout, a nice reference, and the chance to go off and do something new. Fighting back is possible but tough – you will need to call in favours from your network and pull in as much support as possible. Keep in mind that winning once is not enough, you’ll still find it difficult to progress further within the company. In these cases the only way to truly win is to avoid the reshuffle and then remove your opponent as well.

**If you are doing this**
Re-structuring is a very popular ‘last resort’ method for breaking up an established powerbase. The reason it is so popular is simple – it works. The problem is that this approach is a highly visible challenge to said powerbase, and you can expect your target to pull many, many strings in order to win. These strings can reach surprisingly far throughout the organisation – you may suddenly find yourself dealing with high-level management asking questions about your current plans and intentions. Take the time to scope out the full extent of their influence and network, do the same for yours. Don’t take on those who are more powerfully connected than you are, unless you can leverage a high-profile failure to pull some of their supporters away.

The second challenge is the legality of the move. Workplace laws do exist, and many of them are written to stop sneaky ways of firing people. A targeted restructure needs to be well aligned in advance with HR and legal representatives to ensure that your arse is covered from the inevitable lawsuit.