**What do you need to succeed?**

There are many different organisations and departments and teams. The exact formula to success varies with your circumstances – there is no one-size-fits-all solution to be the best. But some basics are as follows:

-   **Success is usually improvement**: In every industry, a successful team is one which does better tomorrow than it did yesterday. This may be sales per quarter, units manufactured per shift, scientific papers published, patients treated – whatever it is, the important thing is that you are improving. Find out what parameter is most important for your team and your organisation, and then focus on improving that.
-   **Your team needs to be supported and inspired**: You are a manager, which means that your success will come from your team. Thus you need to provide the support which they require to do their jobs. This can be tangible things – budget, bonuses, office or lab space to work, etc. – but it can also be intangible things which inspire and encourage them to do better – nicer job titles, prestige, public praise.
-   **You need to be fair and consistent**: ‘Fair’ is extremely important for people, and a manager who is seen as unfair or inconsistent in their decisions will be disliked or even hated. Whether it is dividing up budgets or deciding on office space, you need to be clear and consistent in how you deal with your team.
-   **Rock the boat, but gently**: You are there to bring in new ideas and new changes, but you have to be careful in how you do it. Too much change or an overly heavy-handed approach can cause your team to turn against you. A well-organised team can get a manager fired with enough work – don’t let it happen to you.
-   **Keep on top of issues**: Things go wrong, this is expected. Your job is to find out about these problems and then make sure that they are solved. This doesn’t mean you solve it yourself, but you need to be sure it is done – if for no other reason that that you will get the blame.