**1. Building and using a network**
There are few things which impact your career like the creation and use of a network. What is a network? Simply a loose collection of people who know you, are familiar with your talents, and like you enough to provide a favour every now and again. Networks can be big or small, wide or deep, but all of them are built one contact at a time.

Countless studies have shown that those who spend more time networking and interacting with others will be promoted faster and enjoy better careers than those who don't. This is partly due to increased knowledge (you hear about new opportunities sooner) and partly due to increased prominence (people will recognise your name when it comes up). Even without the career aspects, a strong network allows you to tap into different skills and perspectives when solving problems or achieving goals. In other words, a network makes you better at your job.

Of course, yours is not the only network in the company – everyone has their own set of informal connections and relationships stretching throughout their colleagues. Sometimes this intersects your network, sometimes it doesn't. Most of the time you won't even be aware of who is connected to who until you say something stupid to the wrong person. It is always a good idea to spend time talking to colleagues and teasing out the connections, watching who goes to lunch with who and who regularly catches up for a coffee or two. This can be painful but will give you a vague idea of the networks which are out there. Enough, at least, to stop you saying something stupid.