- **Have efficient meetings**: Meetings can suck vast amounts of time out of your day, often for no real gain. If you organise a meeting, make sure it starts on time – cut off latecomers if you need to. If you receive an invite, make sure there is a topic and agenda for the meeting – if not, then request one be sent out. Leave when the meeting time is up, even if they are still waffling on (you can always claim another meeting is pressing). Some further tips for controlling meetings are presented in the following section.
- **Put off consistent meeting requesters**: Some people are in love with the idea of meetings, they will constantly organise a session to align on details, discuss the latest updates, or just chat. This is a waste of your time. Generally you can offer a slot for discussion in the semi-distant future (‘next week’ tends to work well), by which stage the need for ‘urgent’ discussion should have passed.
- **Turn meetings into spontaneous chats**: Meetings can be difficult to finish prior to their defined end time, even if the discussion topic is at an end. This is particularly problematic if the meeting is in your office, you will either have to throw them out (which isn’t good, politically) or wait until the time is up (which wastes your valuable time). To avoid this, try to meet others in their office or at their desk. Coming to them gives an impression of respect and interest in their well-being. It also makes you the ‘visitor’, so you can leave whenever the discussion topic is at an end. You can even ‘coincidentally’ pass by their desk a few hours prior to the meeting, and ask if you can quickly discuss the topic now. The answer is usually ‘yes’, and it is always faster than a formal meeting.