- **Insinuate reasons for their behaviour:** Sometimes projects need input from your theoretical sponsor in upper management, yet every email you send disappears into a crowded inbox, never to be heard from again. A simple trick – write once again, mention the lack of communication on the project, and then add “I can only assume your priorities have changed”. Note that you will follow suit and deprioritise the project from date X, at least 1-2 weeks away. By implying that they have a reason to stop the project, you trigger a feeling of worry and denial in their minds. You will inevitably find a hurried and apologetic response on the next day.

Now all of this is fine, but in the daily organisational life you will often feel that other people are acting irrationally. Sometimes this is the case, there are crazy people all over the place. But more often than not they are simply basing their decision on different information to that which is available to you. Irrational activity is usually a sign that there is more going on, and that you need to figure out why they are being irrational.

In general, there are three main reasons why someone will be acting oddly (assuming that they aren’t crazy, of course):

- **They aren’t fully informed:** They are missing some important piece of information which, if they had it, would cause them to act differently. In these cases, you need to figure out what they don’t know, and (tactfully) provide it to them.
- **They have underlying constraints:** There is something preventing them from acting in a particular way, (legal advice, personal beliefs, fear of having a mistake found out, they are being blackmailed) and this constraint is not known to you. Here you need to determine the constraint and figure out a way around it.
- **They have hidden interests:** Everyone has their own goals and desires, and these will often conflict with the goals or desires of their job or position (for example, short-term success in a role is good for your promotion, even if you achieve it in ways which are bad for the company long-term). If you are seeing odd behaviour from a counterpart, it’s quite possible that they are