- **Back your team up**: You are your teams’ representative to the wider organisation, and part of that is supporting their interests. Why should they do their best work for you, if you won’t defend them when needed?
- **Be approachable**: You need to be willing to talk about issues – and this willingness needs to be clear to your team as well. Talk to your team, have an inbox where people can drop off their ideas, actively seek out feedback on how things are going. You will get a wide variety of feedback, some of it silly, but you should follow everything up and handle it respectfully.
- **Be clear when delegating**: Give clear goals when delegating tasks to your team members, if a particular approach needs to be followed then make this clear. Do not dump your responsibility onto them, if you should make a decision, then make it.
- **Explain your plans**: You should always explain as much of your plan as possible to your subordinates. Explain why you are doing something, what the eventual goal is. This builds trust for those inevitable times when you cannot explain why you are doing something – your team will follow you based on the trust you have built up before.
- **Support decisions from higher up**: Regardless of the problems you have with a decision or mandate from higher management, you should support that decision in public with your team members. One of your main roles is to pass information up and down the chain of command, and this includes unwelcome information. If nothing else, make sure you support these decisions because you are likely to lose your job if you don’t.