they need, or you'll pitch the wrong thing and screw up your entire chance.
- **Keep them talking**: People love talking about themselves. Encourage that. It makes them like you more, gives you information on what they need, and lets you gently direct towards the fantastic solution which you are offering. Avoid giving advice, telling them about yourself, or just talking too much.
- **Don't 'check in', include something of value with your reminder**: Yes, you should be keeping in contact with people you are selling to. No, you shouldn't just 'check in' via voicemail or send a 'touch base' email. No-one reads your email, they delete your message, they don't care and they won't remember. So bribe them with something they do want – include links to interesting articles, drop some info they might not know, bribe them with donuts when coming. People are greedy, and they like getting stuff. Tap into that greed to improve their opinion of you.
- **Don't be a loser**: Be confident, don't spend your time trying to follow them around begging for the sale. Neediness looks pathetic, and it will either scare them away or invite their contempt. In love or business, never be needy.
- **Offer fewer choices**: Too many options leads to paralysis, as you spend your time trying to decide which of these many options is the best. Make things simple – offer an expensive option, a cheap option, and a mid-range option. Most people will go for the middle, so price it accordingly.
- **Make clients, not just sales**: Regardless of what you're selling, you need to create a relationship with the person buying. Ask questions, chat, try to find out what exactly they need and how you can meet that need. In the end, we all prefer to give our business to people we like – which is why you want to be the one they like.
- **Smile, laugh**: Not in the sense of 'live laugh love' or any other inspirational rubbish, but go out there and smile at people, then make them laugh. People smile back, people laugh with you.