you to skip commenting, while still giving the impression that you are fully involved in the meeting.
- **Have a back-up plan:** Sometimes you'll be asked something out of nowhere, generally at a time when you weren't paying attention at all. Have a few sentences in reserve to buy time to find an answer – think of comments such as ‘could you provide some background information?’, ‘I can’t answer that right now, but will let you know by X o’clock’, or ‘here’s how I understand the issue so far, correct me if I’m wrong’.
- **Complain in the meeting, not in the corridor:** You’ll be in many meetings trying to get decisions made. This is the time to make your viewpoint known and hammer out a consensus. If it doesn’t go your way, don’t complain about it later in public – this will give you the reputation of a whiny sore loser. Instead, discuss it subtly in smaller rounds, using your contacts and influence to try and recast the decision.

*Run an efficient meeting*
Running an efficient meeting is difficult – doubly so when it is full of uninterested attendees who don’t really need to be there. Follow the tips in the previous section to ensure that you only hold meetings with a valid reason, and that you only invite the people who need to be there. Once you’ve done this, you can then add several more approaches to ensure that it is efficient and effective – this will cement your reputation as a good organiser.
- **Provide an agenda:** Meetings without an agenda rapidly drift off into pointless discussion about topics which were already discussed to death the last three times. Any meeting invitation you send out should have a clear agenda, and this agenda should be summarised at the start of the meeting to remind everyone why they are there.
- **Minimise attendees:** The more people in your meeting the less it will achieve, with groups of less than seven working most efficiently. The only people in your meeting should be those who are directly involved in the decision to be made – either to provide information, implement the outcome, or make the